<p>Date: 2014-01-16 15:15
Title: DART meeting with Keith Wilkinson about research
Category: DART, meeting, research, analysis
Tags: DART, meeting, analysis, postgres, python, statistics</p>

<p>Taken from a mindmap</p>

<h1>Aim</h1>

<ul>
<li>To understand the gaps between sensor reqponses, environmental variables and soil measurements</li>
<li>Discuss building up the stats back end model
#Topics</li>
<li>CMD mini explorer

<ul>
<li>In theory measures resistivity and mag</li>
<li>Can compare this with the mag sus samples whjch were used as control</li>
<li>We would need to look at this</li>
<li>The theory is

<ul>
<li>The mag sus element of the ERT reading should not change

<ul>
<li>We have a control already</li>
</ul></li>
<li>This means that we should be able to identify the conductivity variations as the seond component

<ul>
<li>These should be comparable to Dans data</li>
</ul></li>
<li>THIS ALL NEEDS FUSING</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>Publication holes

<ul>
<li>Morphological description from the sections

<ul>
<li>Grain size and organics</li>
<li>Geo-archaeology</li>
<li>Journal of field archaeology</li>
<li>This should become a position paper for a follow on grant</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Correlation of the magnetometry surveys

<ul>
<li>Breakdown assumptions that measurements are down to 1m</li>
<li>We have this in diddington</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Comparison of

<ul>
<li>Grain size</li>
<li>Magnetics</li>
<li>Compare mag variations in clay rich components both on and off site

<ul>
<li>This would need correction of organic</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Get measurements from the same spatial location and undertake multivariate analysis</li>
<li>Understand &#39;natural&#39; and then see how anthropogenic variations</li>
<li>If aggregation is required then we can average</li>
<li>Remember things can be very heavily skewed if ceramic fragments in the sample

<ul>
<li>Outliers may need removing</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>Comparison of archaeological and engineering soils

<ul>
<li>Unfortunately Birmingham undertake data aggregation before they publish</li>
<li>Need to get access to the underlying RAW data from Birmingham</li>
<li>Note: there is a difference between raw data and presentation synthesis

<ul>
<li>Birmingham want to synthesise data</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>Arrange a meeting with Chris G and ArminS when initial stats framework in place</li>
</ul></li>
<li>David Jordan

<ul>
<li>Throwing a whole load of techniques aimed at percolation modelling to see what sticks</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Project proposal

<ul>
<li>Permanent monitoring

<ul>
<li>Install permanent ERT sensor

<ul>
<li>Monitor for 14 months</li>
<li>£30k?</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Excavate section

<ul>
<li>£3k</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Record section

<ul>
<li>SfM</li>
<li>Multiple interpretations</li>
<li>write archaeological contractors into the project design to get this done as contribution in kind

<ul>
<li>Leave the hole open for a period of days</li>
<li>Allow the section to be cut back (if necessary)</li>
</ul></li>
<li>include contexts</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Take high resolution in-situ mag-sus (2-5)cm intervals)

<ul>
<li>£0k</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Sample at very high resolution

<ul>
<li>£0.5k</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Run analysis on monoliths

<ul>
<li>Particle size</li>
<li>Mag Sus</li>
<li>Organic content</li>
<li>£40k</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Build section based on lab analyses</li>
<li>Publish

<ul>
<li>accuracy of the section and context recording</li>
<li>What degree of granularity required to capture full sequence </li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul>

<h1>Things to do</h1>

<ul>
<li>ARB

<ul>
<li>Start building up comparisons between recorded soil properties and lab soil properties</li>
<li>Matching the quantitative lab measurements to the qualitiative field descriptions</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Keith

<ul>
<li>See about picking up some samples for Cherry Copse ditch</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Chris/Rob

<ul>
<li>Host the Bartington magnetometry data</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Harnhill chery copse data

<ul>
<li>The reported profile in the lab measurements is wrong</li>
<li>They are reported as butting</li>
<li>However, on the section drawings they overlap</li>
<li>I think this is fixed in the data model

<ul>
<li>Check</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
